# Voice-Based-Email-for-Visually-Impaired
An email application designed for visually impaired people to perform their tasks easily and effectively

This project was completed by Priyanka Awatramani (5), Sneha Lalwani (39) and Sartha Tambe (66) as a part of Human Machine Interaction Project under the guidance of Dr. Mrs. Gresha Bhatia and Mrs. Ashwini Gaikwad

Our aim is to create an application where normal people can communicate via email while we use the speech to text algorithm for visually impaired users. The main advantage of this system is that use of the keyboard is completely eliminated, the user will have to respond through voice only. This application helps to minimize the complications that the visually impaired people face while communicating, thus making them less dependent on others for sending mails.

Since the system is for visually challenged people and keyboard operations are completely avoided, composing mail would only be done on voice input and mouse operations. No typed input will be required. Users can directly record messages that need to be propagated and can send it. This voice message will go in the form of attachment. The receiver can hear the recording and get the message the user wanted to send. Users would not require attaching the file. Record options will be provided in the compose window itself. Once recorded it will confirm whether the recording is perfect or not by letting the user hear it and if the user confirms it will be automatically attached to the mail.

This project proposes an android application, designed specifically for visually challenged people. This application provides a voice based mailing service where they can send mails on their own, without any guidance. This voice mail system can be used by a blind person to access mails easily and efficiently. The proposed system entirely focuses on the benefit of the blind in making use of advanced technology for their growth and improvement. This project will be very much useful for today's generation either blind or physically challenged to move a step forward in their way in an easy manner to achieve their desire. Thus reliance of the visually impaired on other people for their activities related to mail can be reduced.
